
Starvation: The scheduling algorithm prevents a process from ever completing
Convoy Effect: The scheduling algorithm allows long-running jobs to dominate the CPU



[1] Turnaround time: is the time interval from the submission time of a process to the completion time of a process. 
[2] Waiting time is the sum of periods spent waiting in the ready queue. The time from the submission of a process until 
the first response is called Response time. 
[3] CPU utilization is the percentage of time CPU remains busy. The number of processes completed per unit time is called Throughput. 
[4] Context switch is the process of swap-out the pre-executed process  from CPU and swap-in a new process to CPU.


II.   Round Robin Scheduling

Round-robin scheduling is designed for time-sharing system.
It is similar to the FCFS scheduling, but preemptive is added to switch between processes. 
A time quantum is typically 10 to 100 milliseconds. 
The ready queue is implemented in FIFO manner.
If a process needs less than a time quantum, it releases the CPU    	    voluntarily.
If a process needs more than a time quantum, it is preempted from the CPU and placed at the back of the ready queue.


According to Silberchatz, Galvin, Gagne in operating system design and operating system by D M Dhamdhere, 
the simple RR scheduling algorithm is given by following steps:- 

1. 	The schedular maintains a queue of ready 
processes and a list of blocked and swapped out 
processes. 
2. 	The PCB of newly created process is added to end 
of ready queue. The PCB of terminating process is 
removed from the scheduling data structures. 
3. 	The schedular always selects the PCB at head of 
the ready queue. 
4. 	When a running process finishes its slice, it is 
moved to end of ready queue. 
5. 	The event handler perform the following action 
a) When a process makes an input -output request or 
swapped out,its PCB is removed from ready queue to 
blocked/swapped out list 
b)When input-output operation awaited by a process 
finishes or process is swapped in its process control block is 
removed from blocked/swapped list to end of ready queue. 